well hey everyone welcome to this video
on how to improve your body language as
a speaker if this is the first time
you've seen one of my videos let me
introduce myself my name is wade
patterson and my youtube channel is all
about impactful communication i want to
help you become a better communicator
because communication is so important
whether it's business whether it's work
whether it's a relationship
communication skills are essential and
public speaking is a scary and
intimidating thing
my youtube channel is all about how to
help you navigate through public
speaking and different situations and
ultimately be more confident and become
really a better leader in a lot of ways
so if that is something that interests
you please subscribe to my channel
because i plan on putting out a lot more
content just like this video so body
language is an interesting one because
it is one of the most important skills
to leverage as a public speaker in a few
other videos that you can find on my
youtube channel i've talked about three
numbers these numbers are 55
7 and why i reference these is because
these numbers are each percentages that
break down how a message is communicated
so 55
is really body language so body language
the way somebody is moving facial
expressions all of those sorts of things
that is 55
of a message being communicated
is vocal tone and variety and the
example i love to use is thinking about
sarcasm saying something like i am so
excited to be here thank you so much for
watching my video
versus
i'm so excited to be here thank you so
much for watching this video it means
the world to me
two sentences where i said basically the
exact same thing meant very different
things based on the way i said them and
that is how you can see that 38 percent
is vocal tone and variety because the
way your voice is really helps indicate
what you are trying to communicate and
then that brings us to that last number
which is seven which is only seven
percent of a message being communicated
is the actual words that we say
this is something that is critical when
you think about text emails or text
messages or any digital communication
where we don't have body language and we
don't have voice we are missing out on
93 percent of the way a message is
communicated so this goes back to that
55 being body language such an essential
piece of how you get across what it is
you intend to communicate i think the
best way to tackle this video is to talk
about some of the common mistakes that i
see
other speakers make when it comes to not
leveraging body language in a good way
and when we're giving a speech
most of the time it will be in a
situation where maybe there's a small
crowd but there's often a lectern or
there's something there that we can hold
on to or stand behind
and it might sound intimidating it might
sound crazy but my first piece of advice
for taking your body language to the
next level as a speaker
is to move that lectern out of the way
completely
so that it is just you in front of the
audience nothing standing in between
many speakers use the lectern as a
crutch and they grip onto it and they
hold it and that is their stability and
it makes them feel perhaps a little bit
more comfortable but when your arms are
holding on to something that takes away
all the ability to be using them to
communicate and to be leveraging that
body language which is going to help
again make you a more impactful speaker
that is one reason the second reason is
that the lectern will be completely
blocking your body which eliminates your
opportunity to move around make
purposeful movements in front of the
crowd which again is going to add impact
to whatever it is that you're speaking
about to the audience while i give the
example of a lectern you can replace
that with a lot of different things
sometimes there's a chair that's nearby
a lot of people grip on a chair
next time you're at a situation where
people are public speaking just watch
watch how many people hang on to
something even if it's a table or
something there's this inherent need to
stabilize ourselves i think but the
truth is we will be fine standing up
allowing our arms to fall to our sides
not in our pockets because that's
another mistake people often bury their
hands in their pockets which again
prohibits that ability to bring up the
hands and communicate with them
but by having your arms at your side
having free space to be able to walk
around as you're talking
that is going to help separate you from
being an okay or a good speaker into a
speaker that is phenomenal where people
afterward are talking about wow
that individual is an incredible speaker
by that simple thing that you didn't you
were the only person who maybe didn't
hold on to that lectern it's crazy how
much that can change so you may be
asking yourself well wade i have notes
that i need to reference therefore i
need to stand behind the lectern
i hear your point on this i have two
arguments to it first off
the more you can speak without reading
notes especially word for word
that is going again to make a better
speech
individuals who stand up and hold a
piece of paper and read every word off
of it sound very monotone and that is
not make for a great speaker a great
speaker knows what he or she is going to
talk about and sure you can have notes
but those notes my suggestion would be
they should be subtle references to
things that you are knowledgeable about
that you know you're going to talk about
for example if you're giving a speech
about yourself and growing up in the
town or city that you grew up in
you don't need to read off anything word
for word that is information that you
know inside and out maybe you have a
story about your friend bob that you
want to remember to tell great just put
story about friend bob in the part of
your notes where chronologically it
makes sense and when you look at that
piece of paper that will just trigger
your memory to tell a story that you're
already familiar with telling if it's a
more detailed presentation of something
that maybe you aren't as familiar with
you can have some notes but my
suggestion in order to
still get that lectern out of the way
is to have it off to the side and have
your notes sitting there that way you
can subtly look and reference the little
keywords and trigger points that are
going to remind you what you're going to
speak about
and then you can turn back to the
audience and fully communicate the more
you practice the less you're going to
need to reference that piece of paper
and again the less you're using notes
especially if you can use no notes at
all the less need you'll need for a
lectern and the more opportunity there
will be for you to practice body
language and to really make the audience
connect with what you are talking about
my next piece of advice is to make
purposeful movements
now while body language is incredibly
important i have seen speakers who move
around too much that is a thing they're
all over the stage they're constantly
moving around and all of their movement
almost becomes more distracting
from the speech itself and it makes it
difficult for the audience to connect
with what they're talking about instead
of doing that i suggest you do move but
you make those movements purposeful
therefore if you're talking about a time
that you were playing baseball
the lead up to the big moment you could
be standing still with your hands at
your side
explaining this bringing them up from
time to time to explain but then it's
that moment when you step up to the
plate you have the bat there you hit the
ball you start running these are the
moments where you can actually move
around the stage or the floor area
wherever you're speaking however the
setup is
that is a time where it actually makes
sense because the audience now is
connecting and visualizing you playing
baseball you being at the plate you
running the bases your body language is
helping them to make that connection
whereas there's sometimes where we're
talking about something that doesn't
require all that movement so be
purposeful with the movements make sure
it adds to the speech rather than takes
away from it there's a habit that i had
for a long time which is a bad habit and
i've seen many other people have this
and i like to call it the invisible
table
so while you may be using your hands as
body language sometimes when you're
standing up your hands stay above this
angle where they never drop down to your
side and that is the best place for them
to be when you're in resting position
and you're speaking your hands should
just be set to your side bringing them
up only when you need to utilize them
but instead some people
get in this situation where they're
using it all the time but their hands
never actually drop down they stay
around here or maybe they as they're
talking they clasp their hands and they
talk and again this may be more of an
advanced tip but the advanced tip is
while it's great you're using your hands
allow them to fall to the side don't
keep them up at this i guess 90 degree
angle i'm bad with angles and geometry
and all of that but that flat angle you
want to keep them down at your side and
then bringing them up for those
purposeful movements a final thing to be
mindful of when it comes to body
language is that you're not blocking
anybody out if you're in a room where
people are sat in almost a horseshoe
style seating arrangement sometimes it
can be tempting to turn and completely
face somebody directly but if you're
doing that and this is the seating
alignment that may mean that your
backside is facing the people on this
side and
well
i'm sure you have a great backside
that's not the best way that you want to
be facing your audience you want to be
in a situation where everyone is
included no matter what you're talking
about any of those situations so again
you don't want to walk too far up the
horseshoe where now most people are
looking at your back you want to always
be in a position where people can see
the front of you you're speaking to them
again move around you move around the
room move around the stage but keep your
audience in front of them so they can
almost all of the time see your face
there may be some exceptions to this but
for the most part
don't be one of those speakers who
walk so far that people are craning
their necks to try and see where you
have gone you want to in general keep
most of your audience able to easily see
you you can also be mindful of various
objects in the room i've seen some
awkward conference rooms where there's a
pillar right in the middle and that is
up to you as the speaker if that's the
case and it's impossible for everyone to
see you at once then that may be a
situation where you do have to move
around a little bit and ensure that
you're making eye contact and that
people can most of the time
see you and the body language you're
bringing to that speech i hope that
these tips on how to enhance your body
language when speaking have been helpful
if you haven't already done so please
subscribe to my channel it would mean a
lot to me i am passionate about making
videos about impactful communication and
please like this video comment below did
i miss anything about body language give
your suggestions maybe i'll have to do a
second part to this video because there
are so many things to think about when
it comes to body language otherwise i
hope you enjoyed this video and have an
awesome day